Enterprise 25.3 release branch (#874)
seqeralabs/docs: changelog/seqera-enterprise/v25.3.md

- **Non-AWS S3 support**: Made S3 bucket metadata requests optional for non-AWS S3-compatible APIs
- **Label fallback**: Added fallback mechanism for labels on /launch endpoint
- **Support for S3 compatible HPC storage**.

#### Compute environment features

- **Unschedulable job management**Unschedulable Job Termination: Configured Nextflow to automatically terminate unschedulable jobs on AWS Batch compute environments by setting aws.batch.terminateUnschedulableJobs to true by default. This prevents jobs that cannot be scheduled (due to invalid resource requests or configuration errors) from indefinitely blocking the job queue, improving overall compute environment reliability and resource utilization.
- **Job queue optimization** Implemented safeguards to prevent unschedulable jobs from blocking other jobs in the queue. When jobs cannot be scheduled due to resource constraints or configuration errors, they are handled separately to ensure other valid jobs can proceed.
- **G6e instance support** Added the AWS g6e instance family (NVIDIA L40S GPUs) to the NVMe disk support list, enabling high-performance local storage for GPU-accelerated workloads.

#### Pipeline versioning

> - **Pipeline schema enhancements**: Added `PipelineSchema` entity with user/workspace and Launch relationships.

Reviewer: In fact custom schema support will not be exposed in 25.3.0, this will arrive in a patch. How do we normally reflect that in the changelog?

> - **Pipeline schema enhancements**: Added `PipelineSchema` entity with user/workspace and Launch relationships.

Author: If something is in prod but not customer-facing, we don't include it at all. When the patch is released we publish a release note for it.

- **Organization settings**: Removed blanket ListOrganizationSettings check, use individual permissions instead.
- **Workflow star permissions**: Added proper permission checks for workflow star functionality.
- **Avatar display**: Forced perfect circle avatar shape for consistent rendering.
- **Pipeline workspace change**: Fixed pipeline list not updating when changing workspace.
- **Work directory patching**: Prevented incorrect workdir patching when resuming workflow with compute environment changes.

### Pipeline and workflow fixes

- **Pipeline config location** Fixed pipeline config reading from same directory as main script.
- **Container name length** Fixed error when saving long container names.
- **Template source type**: Fixed template source type patching.
- **Workflow deletion**: Added explicit sort to force deletion of older workflows first.
- **Dataset redirect**: Fixed redirect to dataset list when no versions retrieved.
- **YAML validation**: Fixed trigger YAML validation on Studios config patch.
- **Avatar file handling**: Fixed `describePipeline` to properly handle avatar files.

### Database and migration fixes

> - **Migration cleanup**: Deleted problematic m102 mysql patch and override migration files.

Reviewer: Both this m102 item and the UK_launch_pipeline_version_default were added and fixed in the same enterprise release. So this feels like noise in the release notes.

- Added support for tracking and launching specific versions of pipeline configurations.
- Added the ability for users to create, save, and reference pipeline versions from edit or launch.
- Added role-based permissions to pipeline version management.
- Added commit ID pinning.
- Added automatic default branch selection when no revision is specified.
- Added support for [Dynamic Resource Labels](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/resource-labels/overview#dynamic-resource-labels).

#### Seqera AI

- Added the ability to debug a pipeline and create a new data sheet via the Seqera AI chat interface.

#### Datasets

- Refactored datasets list- and detail-views with additional metadata and improved version control.
  - Dynamically show/hide datasets for all users in the workspace. Hidden datasets do not count towards per workspace quota.
  - Dataset quota limits removed.
  - Sort dataset list by name, recently updated, recently used.
  - Added support for labels.
  - Enhanced filtering of all dataset attributes (visibility, label, username, `createdAfter`, `createdBefore`, `updatedAfter`, `updatedBefore`, `usedAfter`, `usedBefore`).

>   - One-click view of all pipeline runs using a specific dataset, adding direct traceability between datasets and workflow runs.

Reviewer 2: ``
```suggestion
  - Added one-click view of all pipeline runs using a specific dataset, adding direct traceability between datasets and workflow runs.
```

- Added endpoint to describe and list custom roles.
- Added grant listing controller and service methods.
- Integrated grants into application-level RBAC.

#### Studios

- Added Git repository integration to **Add Studio** page, supporting private and public repos.
- Added the ability to configure custom clone paths for Git repositories in Studios. 
- Added the ability to fetch and create Docker build context asynchronously before Wave submission.
- Added CSP config for LakeFS cloud integration.
- Added the ability to launch Studios with an iframe served by Connect. To enable this, use the `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_CONNECT_IFRAME` environment variable. 
- Added the ability to stop a Studio session that is stuck starting without needing AWS console access.

#### Pipeline versioning

- Added [pipeline revision management and versioning](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/pipelines/overview#key-features) to pipeline launches.
- Added support for tracking and launching specific versions of pipeline configurations.
- Added the ability for users to create, save, and reference pipeline versions from edit or launch.
- Added role-based permissions to pipeline version management.

> - Added commit ID pinning and automatic default branch selection when no revision is specified.

Reviewer: commit Id is actually a separate feature wr pipeline versioning

- Added Git repository integration to the **Add Studio** page, supporting loading the configuration from private and public repostiories.

> - Added ability to clone the content of the Git repo in a Studio at startup time in a configurable path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added ability to clone content from a Git repository to a Studio at startup time.
```

> - Added ability to build Docker images from a Dockerfile in the repositories with Wave and use them as Studios.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added ability to create Studios from Docker images, built from a repository Dockerfile using Wave.
```

> - Added ability to stop a Studio session that is stuck starting without needing AWS console access.

Author: Good question. It could be considered a bug but it's a feature because it improves the user experience and didn't previously break anything, just caused a less than optimal user experience.

> - Added functionality when mounting data to a Studio to allow the dynamic creation of a data-link using the **Save as data link** action when inside a prefix/folder of a bucket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added **Save as data link** action when mounting data to a Studio.
```

- Added ability to add custom environment variables during Studio configuration.

#### Pipelines

> - Added [pipeline revision management and versioning](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/pipelines/overview#key-features) to pipeline launches.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [PREVIEW] Added [pipeline versioning](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/pipelines/versioning) feature for launch reproducibility and traceability.
```

- Added support for tracking and launching specific versions of pipeline configurations.

> - Added ability for users to create, save, and reference pipeline versions from edit or launch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- Added role-based permissions to pipeline version management.
- Added commit ID pinning.

> - Added automatic default branch selection when no revision is specified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- Added support for [Dynamic Resource Labels](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/resource-labels/overview#dynamic-resource-labels).

#### Datasets

> - Refactored datasets list- and detail-views with additional metadata and improved version control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Refactored datasets list and detail views with additional metadata and improved version control.
```
